= Development Lifecycle Recommendations in FIWARE =

== SCM Tool ==

* The SCM Tool '''MUST''' be [https://github.com Github.com]. Accompanying tools or plugins that integrate well with Github (ex. Gerrit) '''MAY''' be used. 
* Github '''MUST''' be used during the '''whole development lifecycle'''.  
* The name of the Github Repository '''MAY''' be <i>'fiware' + '-' + "Code Name of your GE"</i>. Example: <code>fiware-orion</code>.
* The Github Repository content '''MUST''' meet the [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Publication_Requirements|GE Publication Requirements]]
* When the GE code is spread over various repositories, the FIWARE hyperlinks can be included on the README.md pertaining to the main repository or at the GH user/organization level. 

* Every repository in Github '''SHOULD''' have at least one branch corresponding to the main development line, usually named 'master', and a certain number of additional branches/tags corresponding to releases.
* Every repository in Github '''SHOULD''' comply with the  Github recommended community standards checklist - e.g. https://github.com/Fiware/developmentGuidelines/community
* Every repository in Github '''SHOULD''' have a one line repository description  - the description '''SHOULD NOT''' be left blank
* Where ReadtheDocs docummentation exists for a repository in Github, the GitHub repository URL '''SHOULD'''  link back to the latest Readthedocs documentation - the URL '''SHOULD NOT''' be left blank
* Every repository in Github '''SHOULD''' include a list of related topics including the following:
** <code>fiware</code>
** The name of the most frequently used related tag on Stack Overflow e.g. <code>fiware-orion</code>, <code>kurento</code>
* Other relevant descriptive tags e.g. <code>contextual-data</code>, <code>iot-agent</code>, <code>security</code> etc. '''MAY''' be added.
* When a Github repository is sample code related a Generic Enabler, it '''SHOULD''' also add the relevant Stack Overflow tag for that GE e.g. a python script generating context data for Orion should also include the <code>fiware-orion</code> tag.


== Development Lifecycle ==

Apart from the minimal, mandatory lifecycle described by the [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Development_Lifecycle|GE Requirements]] the following guidelines also apply.

The development lifecycle of a GE '''SHOULD''' be as follows: 

1. When developing a new feature / bug try to '''divide the work''' into smaller parts.
For instance, dividing by front-end and back-end implementation. There can be other criteria that might depend on each feature / bug.
The aim of this division is to simplify the review process. Big commits are usually hard to review, hard to change later and prone to conflicts.  

2. Once you have divided the work in parts, the implementation of each part '''SHOULD''' be done in a '''different branch'''
that you will use later to <i>Pull Request</i> to the GE Repository. One recommended practice is that you <i>fork</i> the original repository to your GH account
and develop the feature in your own branch (which will belong to your own repository).
Later, you will make a Pull Request from that branch to the GE repository. See [http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/].  

3. The Pull Request '''SHOULD''' include not only the feature's source code but '''unit or integration tests''' together with relevant documentation. 

4. At the time of landing (merging), a Pull Request '''SHOULD''' include '''only one commit'''.
While developing you '''MAY''' have more than one commit but ultimately <i>only one commit '''SHOULD''' remain</i>.
For doing so, use the [https://blog.github.com/2016-04-01-squash-your-commits/ git squash] functionality.
Nonetheless, there can be situations for which a Pull Request might be better explained with more than one commit.
In that particular case you '''SHOULD''' also try to squash your commits into functionally coherent blocks.
Nonetheless, every commit message '''MUST''' be descriptive of what feature or bug the code is implementing, for instance: 

<code>ISSUE 345. POST Operation /entities. Part I Parsing Requests. </code><br>
<code>ISSUE 345. POST Operation /entities. Part II DB Persistence. </code> <br>
<code>ISSUE 345. POST Operation /entities. Part III Rendering Responses. </code> 

5. Once a Pull Request is done, a '''code review''' will be performed. Find a competent reviewer that can perform a code review.
There can be more than one reviewer but one of them '''SHOULD''' be a main developer or technical owner/architect of the project.
Typically the reviewer will test the feature, review the code (style, robustness, structure, performance) and suggest some changes.
The code review '''MUST''' be made using the code review facilities provided by Github. 

6. Try to address all the comments suggested by reviewers. If a comment is not going to be addressed a rationale '''SHOULD''' be provided.

7. Wait for a final '''positive review'''. This '''MAY''' imply <i>one or more iterations</i> over steps 5 and 6.

8. Land (merge) the new code. But before landing '''ensure that all tests are passing'''.
Under certain conditions your Pull Request could not be directly landed (merged). In that case you would need to rebase your branch with the master branch,
resolve all conflicts, push them and finally merge the new code in the master branch.

9. If later you discover that new code is breaking something <i>do not hesitate to back out the culprit code</i>.
That's the advantage of landing only one commit. Backing out code is as easy as <code>git revert <commit_hash></code> .

== Continuous Integration ==

GE projects developed as open source '''SHOULD''' have a '''public continuous integration system'''. 

The continuous integration system '''SHOULD''' be running '''every time a new Pull Request''' (PR) is done.
As a result the PR owner can know in advance if her code is breaking something. 

Before landing new code the continuous integration system '''MAY''' be run in a temporary branch that merge the Pull Request and the destination branch.
Nonetheless, in the event of continuous integration '''errors''' the (offending) code '''MUST''' be '''backed out''' or a fix '''SHOULD''' be provided urgently. Use git revert for the former. 

[https://travis-ci.org/ Travis-Ci] '''MAY''' be your '''continuous integration system''' as it is super-easy to integrate it with Github.
Jenkins is another popular tool which has the advantage of being able to run on different OS.

Unit tests coverage '''MAY''' be provided using open source tools like [https://coveralls.io/ coveralls]. See an example in [https://github.com/Wirecloud/wirecloud https://github.com/Wirecloud/wirecloud]

You '''MUST''' include '''Travis badges''' (or other badges) in your README.md file. Travis badges can be used to report the current status of your build, (it '''SHOULD''' be green!).

== Tracking ==

A Tracking system '''MUST''' be used in order to '''manage the development work'''. Such tracking system '''MUST''' include at least all the bugs/known issues of your component. 

The Tracking system '''SHOULD''' be '''public'''. You '''MAY''' use the [https://jira.fiware.org FIWARE Jira] as a '''public tracking tool'''.

When a commit is actually solving a bug/issue there '''MUST''' be a '''cross-reference''' between the commit message and the corresponding bug/issue in the Tracking System.  

When users report a new '''bug''', it '''SHOULD''' be given an '''estimation''' of when the bug will be solved.
If the bug is consider minor or a very edge case and it will not be resolved,
it '''SHOULD''' be marked as 'WontFix' and closed. This decision '''MUST''' be '''communicated''' to the reporter together with a suggested workaround. 

The '''roadmap''' of your component '''SHOULD''' be '''public'''. Please check the [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Roadmap|General Roadmap Requirements]]

Be prepared for '''external contributions'''. When someone makes a Pull Request be responsive and consider carefully the proposal made.
If you want to '''create community''' around your component you '''SHOULD''' be open minded.
On the other hand code authored by external contributors '''SHOULD''' not break the basic design principles of your component. Be prepared for trade-offs.


== Code Quality ==

Project repositories '''SHOULD''' automate coding formatting and run code linters/style checkers
as part of the CI testing process where possible - e.g. Checkstyle, Lint4j, EsLint etc. A list of suitable tools can be found at: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tools_for_static_code_analysis

To attract active support community, code  '''SHOULD''' regularly be upgraded to the latest LTS libraries and versions of dependencies - e.g. Java 8,9,10 rather than Java 1.4; ECMAScript 6 rather than ECMAScript 5 etc. Ideally such changes can also be applied automatically, but '''MUST''' be tested.

Versions of dependent libraries with known vulnerabilities  '''SHOULD''' be upgraded

You '''SHOULD''' include '''Synk badges'''  (or other badges) in your README.md file. Synk can be used to report the vulnerabilities of your build, (it '''SHOULD''' be green!).


== Documentation ==

Apart from meeting the [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Documentation_Requirements|General Documentation Requirements]] the following guidelines apply. 

To avoid documentation inconsistencies, '''development related''' documents '''MUST''' be handled in the same way than Source Code, this implies:

* '''Developer oriented''' documentation '''MUST''' be included as part of the Github content. 
* '''MarkDown''' (.md) is the recommended format for document files. Restructured Text (reST) might be used as well. 
* Additional developer oriented documentation (advanced topics) '''MUST''' be present in a '/doc' folder at the root of your repository (or in an specific documentation repository associated to the GE). It is noteworthy that <i>you '''MUST''' use an approved markup notation format if you want to benefit from automatic documentation generation systems (ReadTheDocs)</i>.
** [https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet Markdown] is preferred for simple documents.
** [https://github.com/ralsina/rst-cheatsheet/blob/master/rst-cheatsheet.rst ReStructuredText] is an acceptable alternative for complex documentation.
* Code and documentation '''MUST''' be synced. To this aim, every '''Pull Request''' with any impact in existing documentation '''SHOULD''' include any related '''documentation changes'''.
* '''Inconsistencies''' or lacks of documentation '''SHOULD''' be detected in Code Reviews and QA phases, opening '''bugs''' when necessary.

=== Documentation README.md ===

* A '''README.md''' '''MUST''' be always present in the root folder of any repository associated to the GE. The purpose of such a document associated to a GE is to document:
** GE overall description.
** How to Deploy the GE (basic/default installation procedure)
** How to run tests
** A walkthrough guide on using the main APIs
** How to get access to the advanced API and Documentation topics

In general the structure of the README '''SHOULD''' follow a standard format such as [https://github.com/RichardLitt/standard-readme].

More specifically, the referred README '''SHOULD''' include:

* Simple GE/Service '''Description''' and purpose - 
** The first paragraph '''SHOULD''' be an '''elevator pitch''' about the purpose of the repository (Since this is displayed on GitHub on mobile) 
** Include direct ''' Readthedocs''' links to the '''User Guide''', '''Admin Guide''' in a subsequent introductory paragraph (To allow users to navigate directly between code and documentation )
** Include information about testbed environments if available

* Then add a '''Table of Contents''' to make navigation through the rest of the document easier

* How to '''Build & Install'''
** Make your simplest full stack deployment as easy as possible
** Include System requirement info: SO, CPU/Storage Capacity...
** Include installation support for your dependencies
** Provide a “Hello World” example using curl (basic acceptance test)
** Include troubleshooting information for the whole process

* '''API Overview''' of the main data flow
** It is a tutorial, not a reference. It does not need to be exhaustive, it needs to guide the user
** Provide always curl examples for this section

* More '''API Examples'''
** Just the important bits of your API used in examples

* A link to the '''API Reference Documentation'''. [https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification Open API] '''SHOULD''' be used.

* How to '''run tests'''
** End to End tests ('''MUST'''). This will be part of the sanity checks included in the "Installation & Administration Guide", thus a link will be needed. 
** Unit tests ('''SHOULD''')
** Performance tests ('''MAY''')

* List of links to '''Advanced topics''' (/doc folder)
** User & Programmers Manual            ('''MUST''')
** Installation & Administration Guide ('''MUST''')
** Other documents, for instance: HA deployment, detailed architecture, Advanced configuration topics, advanced functionalities, ...

=== Developer Oriented Documentation (ReadtheDocs) ===

The name of the '''project''' on ReadtheDocs '''SHOULD''' match the stackoverflow tag and Docker image name, e.g. <code>fiware-orion</code> => <code>https://hub.docker.com/r/fiware/orion</code> => <code>https://fiware-orion.rtfd.io</code>.

Admin access to each ReadtheDocs documentation project '''MUST''' be granted to multiple accounts. This '''SHOULD''' include
the current owner of the enabler, and '''MAY''' also be granted the <code>fiware</code> user account - this avoids 
lock-out in case an individual administrator is unavailable.

The Documentation '''title''' on ReadtheDocs (i.e. the <code>site_name</code> within the <code>mkdocs.yml</code>) '''MUST''' reflect the name of the enabler. The title '''MAY''' match the stackoverflow tag or alternatively the <code>site_name</code> '''MAY''' consist of the enabler name wihout the 'fiware' prefix.

The basic format of the Developer Documentation should consist of the following sections in the following order

* Getting Started '''SHOULD''' - simple responses from the GE - e.g. <code>/version</code> endpoint
* User/Programmer's Guide '''MUST''' - how to use the GE
* Installation/Admin Guide '''MUST''' - how to install the GE, both directly from source and via Docker
* Deprecated Functionality '''MAY''' - any functionality that is no longer supported or deprecated

Running tests, contributing code & etc. '''SHOULD''' be linked directly from the README, but 
'''SHOULD NOT''' be part of the ReadtheDocs Documentation - the justification is that many users of the
software are not interested in contributing, but need to find user instructions alone without bloat in the text.

Table-of-Contents listings '''MAY''' be added at the head of each file, but '''MUST''' come 
directly after the main <code>h1</code> header, and '''MUST NOT''' be preceded by <code>h2</code>  
'''Table of Contents''' Header of their own. This means the Table of Contents can be  used for navigation
if reading the unstyled markdown files on GitHub, but can be hidden using CSS within the 
ReadtheDocs documentation itself and avoid duplication with the sidebar Navigation.

Markdown for ReadtheDocs '''MUST NOT''' use HTML rendering such as <code>a</code> tags as 
the navigation will no longer work correctly in Readthedocs. 

Markdown for ReadtheDocs may use <code>h1...h6</code> HTML headers if necessary to suppress entries in the
ReadtheDocs sidebar.


== Configuration ==

GEs '''SHOULD''' be configurable through a <code>config</code> file. 

Docker images for GEs '''SHOULD''' be configurable. through <code>ENV</code> variables. Where this is not possible
or desirable, the README.md '''MUST''' explain how to mount a volume to set the configuration.

If the GE can be configured through a config file, a '''template/example''' configuration file '''MUST''' be present and fully aligned with every version. 

The config file '''MUST''' be seen as part of the documentation (for integrators and deployers).
So it is mandatory to '''document every config param''', its available options and operation advices.
[https://github.com/antirez/redis/blob/unstable/redis.conf Redis configuration] is an illustrative example.

== Software Releases (source code) ==

Apart from meeting the general [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Releases|Release Requirements]] the following guidelines apply.  

Each code release '''SHOULD''' be properly '''tagged''' in your Github repository. 

Each component '''SHOULD''' always show a consistent view in the “Releases” and “Tags” tabs at GitHub.com. Examples:

* https://github.com/fiware/context.Orion/releases

* https://github.com/fiware/context.Orion/tags

The release notes '''SHOULD''' include links for downloading the source code. 

The '''release notes''' associated to each Release '''SHOULD''' include the '''changelog''' for that release,
i.e. the list of changes regarding the previous version, including (if possible) links to the '''GitHub issues''' related to each change.

== Binary Releases ==

GEs '''MUST''' provide Docker containers according to [[Docker|Docker Guidelines]]. 

== Additional Repository Content ==

Files describing the '''Licensing and Contribution Policy''' '''MUST''' be included in the repository.
Please check the [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Licensing_Requirements|General GE Licensing Requirements]]. 
They '''MUST''' be consistent with those reflected in the [http://catalogue-server.fiware.org FIWARE Catalogue].

== Developer Support ==

Apart from meeting the general [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Ecosystem_Support_and_Quality_Requirements|Ecosystem Support and Quality Requirements]] the following guidelines
apply.  

[http://stackoverflow.com Stackoverflow] '''SHOULD''' be used for thorough technical questions. Educate your users to '''tag''' their questions properly in Stackoverflow. 

Each FIWARE GE '''MUST''' be associated to an Stackoverflow tag. Such tag could be specific for a GE or default to a chapter generic tag, for instance <fiware-iot>. 

Stackoverflow tags '''SHOULD''' be of the form ''fiware-<GE codename>''. Example fiware-orion.
Creating new tags requires Stackoverflow Karma. You '''MAY''' ask someone from the FIWARE community with enough Karma to create tags for your GE.
Otherwise you can use the [https://ask.fiware.org FIWARE Q&A] platform. 

* ''Exception to the rule:'' In the case the GE is associated to an existing tag (e.g. the tag was created before that GE joined FIWARE),
it could be used instead of the usual fiware-XXXX as an exception, as long as the two following conditions occur:

1) the tag clearly reflect the name of the GE,
2) the tag is already widely used in StackOverflow (i.e. more than 30 questions using it).
Anyway, this is a workaround valid only in the case a tag synonym cannot be created due to reputational constraints.

'''New releases''' of your components '''SHOULD''' be announced through different channels: FIWARE Blog, dedicated Twitter or similar channels, your own Blog ... 

To build and maintain the FIWARE community, it is essential that the team responsible for each product to openly engage with the wider development community,
therefore responding to User Support requests in a timely manner is a '''MUST'''.

* If an external developer has found an issue with existing functionality which cannot be fixed in a timely manner, a known issue '''MUST''' be added to the documentation.
* If an external developer has found a fixable issue with existing functionality an alternative '''workaround''' '''MUST''' be provided, and the code patched as soon as possible.
* If an external developer suggests support for a new feature is not implemented / not available, an alternative '''workaround''' '''SHOULD''' be provided where possible.