= Guidelines for GE Dockerization (Containerization) = 

This page summarizes Guidelines for providing Docker Containers for FIWARE GEs. [https://docs.docker.com/engine/understanding-docker/ Click here] for an introduction to Docker.

There are three kinds of guidelines included:

* MUST Guidelines. They are mandatory and your GE project must conform to that.

* SHOULD Guidelines. They are not mandatory but '''highly recommended'''. 

* MAY Guidelines. They are nice to have.

== Guidelines == 

* At least one Dockerfile (hereby named as 'reference Dockerfile'), intended to GE users, '''MUST''' be provided. The base image (Ubuntu, CentOS, etc.) for such a Dockerfile might depend on each GE. 

* Hacker-oriented Dockerfiles (intended to GE developers) '''MAY''' be provided as well. 

* Each Docker container '''MUST''' define the following tags (present at [https://hub.docker.com/ Dockerhub]):

** <code>latest</code>: It will correspond to the latest build (latest code snapshot) of the GE. It might not be stable. 
** <code>stable</code>:  It will correspond to the latest stable release of the GE. 
** <code><release n></code>: one tag per relevant and active stable release. The name of the tag will correspond to the name assigned to the release in Github.
** <code>FIWARE_<release n></code>: one stable release every six months for all FIWARE components. This indicates GEs which will work together

* The reference Dockerfile '''MUST''' be present under the <code>docker</code> folder of the GE repository 

* Should your GE depend on other components (Databases, etc.) you '''MUST''' provide a <code>docker-compose.yml</code> file that will allow to instantiate the GE together with its dependencies. 

* A README.md '''MUST''' be provided under the 'docker' folder. Such a README '''MUST''' give instructions about how to work with the corresponding Docker container. Please bear in mind that such a README will also be included as part of the Dockerhub documentation. 
* The README.md '''MUST''' list all available <code>ENV</code> variables that can be supplied to the Docker Image

* If the Docker file hides sensitive information (e.g. passwords) using Docker Secrets, the '''README.md''' '''MUST''' list all available <code>ENV</code> variables which have an equivalent <code>_FILE</code> that can be supplied by secrets.

* It '''MUST''' be possible to supply sensitive information using the Docker Secrets mechanism as well as plain text variables for testing. Sensitive information (e.g. passwords) '''MUST NOT''' be passed in plain text - <code>ENV</code> variables alone. 

* It '''SHOULD''' be possible to configure the GE config entirely through - <code>ENV</code> variables. Where this is not possible, the README.md '''MUST''' explain how to mount a volume to set the configuration.

* Where configuration occurs via a `config` file, and the image cannot be driven by <code>ENV</code> variables, a sample `config` file '''MUST''' be supplied and injected as part of the Docker build. Dockerfiles '''MUST NOT''' copy default configuration directly from github.

* A GE's Docker '''MUST''' be published at least under the 'fiware' account on DockerHub (if possible, please avoid the term 'fiware'
in your repository name, as the username already contains it).<br>
The GE owner will be responsible for publication and maintenance operations. The publication method will be through the 'Automatic Build Procedure'
which allows to link a Github repository to a Dockerhub one (and keep them in sync). In order to get access to that account and proceed
with the publication, please get in touch with the FIWARE team at [mailto:fiware-help@lists.fiware.org].

* Dockerfiles and Dockerhub repositories '''MUST''' be linked from the FIWARE Catalogue according to the Guidelines defined by the FIWARE Catalogue [http://forge.fiware.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/fiware/index.php/Working_with_the_FIWARE_catalogue#Creating_instances]. 

* The Github repository README  '''MUST''' have a Docker reference - this is a link on the mandatory Docker Pulls README badge

* The ReadtheDocs GE Installation Documentation '''MUST''' include references to the Docker Hub image, and how to configure it.

* Docker containers '''MUST''' be tested before being published to the community. Error in Docker materials of a GE will be considered as critical and '''MUST''' be fixed immediately. 

* Dockerfiles '''SHOULD''' follow best practices as described [https://docs.docker.com/articles/dockerfile_best-practices/ here]

* Dockerfiles '''SHOULD''' be based on the latest LTS release of the base image - e.g. <code>ubuntu:18.04</code>, <code>node:carbon</code> etc.

* Although default values  '''SHOULD'''  be defined, exposed ports '''MUST NOT''' be fixed, and '''MUST''' be configurable using <code>ENV</code> variables.


== Examples == 

[https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-orion/tree/develop/docker Github Repository]

[https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/fiware/orion/ Docker Hub repository]


== Support ==

Should you have any question please send an email to [mailto:fiware-help@lists.fiware.org]
