== Checklist for publishing FIWARE Generic Enablers ==

This checklist is intended to inform new FIWARE GE owners of the steps that have to be taken in order to publish a new FIWARE GE.

Any doubt or request to the FIWARE Foundation shall be made by sending an email to [mailto:fiware-help@lists.fiware.org]

* New entry in the [https://catalogue-server.fiware.org FIWARE Catalogue] under the corresponding Chapter agreed at TSC Level. See also [https://wiki.fiware.org/Working_with_the_FIWARE_catalogue]
* Mirroring Github Webhook properly configured. See [[repo_webhook.mediawiki]]  (Ask FF to configure the mirroring).
* ReadtheDocs portal available and styled using the FIWARE CSS. See [https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.org https://fiware-orion.readthedocs.org] as an example. 
* See [https://github.com/Fiware/context.Orion/blob/master/mkdocs.yml https://github.com/Fiware/context.Orion/blob/master/mkdocs.yml] as a reference on how to configure ReadtheDocs for automatic documentation generation. 
* Analytics should be configured for the ReadtheDocs portal as described by [[analytics_readthedocs.mediawiki]]
* Docker image is available in [https://hub.docker.com/Dockerhub FIWARE's Dockerhub account]
* FIWARE Development (Must) Guidelines are met. See [[development.mediawiki|Development Guidelines]]
* A Stackoverflow tag for the component is registered (Ask FF Staff)
* A public instance may be deployed in the FIWARE Lab and maintained by the FF team (Ask FF Staff)
* Roadmap is available at one of the following:
** Promoted on Github and linked at [https://wiki.fiware.org/Current_Supported_Features_and_Roadmap_in_FIWARE]
** Promoted in a publicly available document on the web and linked at [https://wiki.fiware.org/Current_Supported_Features_and_Roadmap_in_FIWARE]
** Full text found within [https://wiki.fiware.org/Current_Supported_Features_and_Roadmap_in_FIWARE]
* Release schedule is aligned with [[GE_Requirements.mediawiki#Releases]]
* A tutorial is provided (See some examples at [http://fiware-tutorials.readthedocs.io/en/latest/])
* Provide access to the corresponding information in order to see your component reflected in the monitoring tool [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yyZNUlAPDcqjnD-gIoGOd5SZfVDJXO36G75xTDL0HgA/edit#gid=0 FIWARE - TSC Enablers Dashboard] (Ask FF Staff)

