== General Requirements ==

A FIWARE GE must fit well in the architecture of a “Powered by FIWARE” solution:

* integrate well with architectures where context management is cornerstone and addressed using FIWARE NGSI (currently FIWARE NGSIv2, next ETSI NGSI-LD). 
* Producing context information, and/or Processing context information.

== Documentation Requirements ==


== Ecosystem Support and QA Testing ==

The Community behind each GE (owner, other caretakers) should commit to:

* bring support to requests submitted through standard [mailto:fiware-help@lists.fiware.org FIWARE Help Desk channel] and QA testings planned by QA Lab team.

The following assessments will be conducted:

* Assessment on support, to be performed by automated monitoring tools defined by the FIWARE Foundation.
* Assessment on functionality, (sw and documentation), non-functional requirements, etc. to be performed by the QA Lab team.

Results of assessments lead to QA label assignment based on QA labeling schema. QA labels of a given FIWARE GE will be always associated to a minor release of FIWARE.
In the event of not meeting QA requirements:

* Yellow card reprimand will be issued when overall QA label is '''B''' or lower,
* Red card reprimand when overall QA label is '''C''' or lower or keeps being '''B''' in two consecutives minor releases of FIWARE

== Licensing Requirements ==

When using a copyleft open source license, statement ensuring that applications build on top will not get contaminated.
Statement currently requested in the FIWARE Catalogue should be ok:

<i>
Please note that software derived as a result of modifying the source code of the 
<name-of-product> product software in order to fix a bug or incorporate enhancements is
considered a derivative work of the product. Software that merely uses or aggregates (i.e. links to)
an otherwise unmodified version of existing software is not considered a derivative work.
</i>


IPR Management rules have to be clear (document visible at first level of README.md)
allowing contributions from third parties and following certain principles in the case that
the FIWARE GE is released under copyleft open source license:

* There should be at least one organization which can exercise IPRs on the whole software.
* It is acceptable that such FIWARE organization is the original contributor (aka “Owner”)
* There shall be a commitment to transfer to FIWARE Foundation the IPRs in case product is not longer supported

== Roadmap ==

Representatives of the GE community must attend F2F roadmap meetings to
take place at FIWARE Summits (not overlapping with agenda, day or day and a half
before the Summit)

Proposed approach for roadmap: just web page on FIWARE website describing what
work is planned as a result of FIWARE Roadmap meetings.


== Releases ==

Rules for numbering FIWARE releases:

* Major release number: to be increased by decision at TSC level, typically linked with major achievement (e.g., support to NGSI-LD)

* Minor release number: to be incremented with relevant milestones agreed at TSC level. FIWARE Summits by default
these kind of milestones, additional ones can be added if strictly needed and agreed at TSC level

Major.minor numbering of FIWARE GEs in the Core Context Management chapter matches numbering of
FIWARE release, i.e., they automatically increment as FIWARE releases evolve.

Version numbering of GEs in 

GE owners should:

* document in README.md what major.minor release of FIWARE each release of their product is compatible with
* Create a tag <product release number>_FIWARE<major>.<minor> to be attached to the corresponding docker
images, where FIWARE<major>.<minor> is the release of FIWARE that docker image is compatible with (there can
be several tags like that)
* Notify the FIWARE Foundation whenever a new release of the FIWARE GE has been released.
* ”compatibility” with a release means compatibility with Core FIWARE GEs in that release: the FIWARE GE
owner commits to do the relevant testing
