# {{(Incubated) GE Name}} Roadmap

{{Use this for full member GEs}} This product is a FIWARE Generic Enabler. If
you would like to learn about the overall Roadmap of FIWARE, please check
section "Roadmap" on the FIWARE Catalogue.

{{Use this for Incubated GEs}} This product is an Incubated FIWARE Generic
Enabler. If you would like to learn about the overall Roadmap of FIWARE, please
check section "Roadmap" on the FIWARE Catalogue.

## Introduction

This section elaborates on proposed new features or tasks which are expected to
be added to the product in the foreseeable future. There should be no assumption
of a commitment to deliver these features on specific dates or in the order
given. The development team will be doing their best to follow the proposed
dates and priorities, but please bear in mind that plans to work on a given
feature or task may be revised. All information is provided as a general
guidelines only, and this section may be revised to provide newer information at
any time.

## Short term

The following list of features are planned to be addressed in the short term,
and incorporated in the next release of the product planned for **{{date}}**:

{{bullet list of features/tasks}} - this should be a simple list of features you
plan to address in the given period. Try to be comprehensive as well as short in
the description of each feature (**2 lines max**).

-   {{Feature 1}}

-   {{Feature n}}

{{If the description of a given feature will need more elaboration, please add
the following text after end of the description}}:

"(see more detailed description below)" and then create a subsection below or,
alternatively, refer to issues associated to implementation of the feature:
"(see issueX, issueY, ...)" providing the link for each issue.

### {{Feature n}}

subsections providing more details of selected features if needed - this section
would be needed if you plan to add further details as explained above (and not
do it through references to issues)

## Medium term

The following list of features are planned to be addressed in the medium term,
typically within the subsequent release(s) generated in the next **9 months**
after next planned release:

{{Complete this section following the same structure as described for short term roadmap}}

## Long term

The following list of features are proposals regarding the longer-term evolution
of the product even though development of these features has not yet been
scheduled for a release in the near future. Please feel free to contact us if
you wish to get involved in the implementation or influence the roadmap

{{Complete this section following the same structure as described for short term roadmap}}
